Custom domains content overhaul (#187)
alphagov/paas-tech-docs: source/documentation/deploying_services/use_a_custom_domain.md

> # Managing custom domains using the cdn-route service

Reviewer: There are links that references this title by anchor elsewhere in the docs. They need updating (`deploying_services/configure_cdn.md` and `deploying_apps/names_routes_domains.md`). Having said that, those 2 links don't need the anchor at all as this is the top of the page, so it could be omitted.

Author: changed

> This section explains how to manage custom domains for your app by using the GOV.UK PaaS cdn-route service to set up a content distribution network (CDN) that routes and [caches](/deploying_services/use_a_custom_domain/#caching) requests to your app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section explains how to manage custom domains for your app by using the GOV.UK PaaS cdn-route service to set up a content distribution network (CDN) that routes requests to, and [caches](/deploying_services/use_a_custom_domain/#caching) responses from, your app.
```

Author: agree

> This section explains how to manage custom domains for your app by using the GOV.UK PaaS cdn-route service to set up a content distribution network (CDN) that routes requests to and [caches](/deploying_services/use_a_custom_domain/#caching) requests from your app.

Reviewer: "caches requests from your app" doesn't seem right here. I think it should either be "requests to your app", or "responses from your app". The latter is probably more correct as the responses are what is cached.

Author: my mistake, @jpluscplusm did say that and I forgot to put it in

<div style="height:1px;font-size:1px;">&nbsp;</div>

Once you create a CDN service instance, you cannot update or delete it until you have configured it. If you make a mistake that breaks the configuration, email GOV.UK PaaS support at [gov-uk-paas-support@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk](mailto:gov-uk-paas-support@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk) to delete the service instance.

### Setting up a cdn-route service with one or more custom domains

1. Target the space your app is running in:

    ```

>     cf target -o ORGNAME -s SPACENAME

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    cf target -o ORG_NAME -s SPACE_NAME
```

Author: agree

    ```

    where:

>     - `ORGNAME` is the name of your org

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `ORG_NAME` is the name of your org
```

Author: agree

>     - `SPACENAME` is the name of your space

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `SPACE_NAME` is the name of your space
```

Author: agree

1. Create the required domain(s) in your organisation by running the following for each domain:

    ```

>     cf create-domain ORGNAME DOMAIN_NAME

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    cf create-domain ORG_NAME DOMAIN_NAME
```

    - `SERVICE_INSTANCE` is the name you have chosen for your service instance
    - `SUBDOMAIN_LIST` is a comma-separated list of your subdomain(s), for example `www.example.com,www.example.net` (do not include a comma after the final subdomain)

    This command includes `cdn-route` twice because cdn-route is the name of the service and the name of the service plan.

1. Get the DNS information required to configure your subdomain:

    ```
    cf service SERVICE_INSTANCE
    ```

    This outputs the DNS information, as per this example:

    ```
    Last Operation
    Status: create in progress
    Message: Provisioning in progress
             [www.example.com,www.example.net => london.cloudapps.digital];
             CNAME or ALIAS domain www.example.com,www.example.net to
             d3nrs0916m1mk2.cloudfront.net or create TXT record(s):
    name: _acme-challenge.www.example.com.,
          value: ngd2suc9gwUnH3btm7N6hSU7sBbNp-qYtSPYyny325E, ttl: 120
    name: _acme-challenge.www.example.net.,
          value: 4W9jHJIhnfDnWBBAENph6Qr8aeoSV7FzDiEDL-s-o4Q, ttl: 120
    ```

1. Create the TXT records using the DNS information shown. These records:
    - validate your subdomain

>     - issue the TLS certificate used to encrypt traffic

Reviewer: Maybe this should say "allow us to issue the TLS...." - the DNS records don't actually issue the cert. I wonder whether the bullet list is necessary, we could simply say "These records validate your subdomain and allow us to issue the TLS certificate..."

Author: changed

    Using this example, you create 2 `TXT` records for your domain:

    ```

>     - _acme-challenge.www.example.com with a value of ngd2suc9gwUnH3btm7N6hSU7sBbNp-qYtSPYyny325E

Reviewer 2: Were these supposed to be a PRE list with prose inside the PRE?

      <span class="govuk-warning-text__icon" aria-hidden="true">!</span>
      <strong class="govuk-warning-text__text">
        <span class="govuk-warning-text__assistive">Warning</span>
        <p>This assumes that you are using the GOV.UK PaaS to launch a new service and your subdomains are not already delivering a service</p>
        <p>If this is not the case and you are migrating an existing service, we recommend that your technical operations team refer to this documentation when they are designing a custom migration process for your service.</p>
      </strong>
    </div>

You have now completed the custom domain setup process, and can now [map a subdomain to your app](#mapping-a-subdomain-route-to-your-app).

It should take one hour for domain setup to finish after you have created the required DNS records. If it has not finished after 2 hours, please refer to the [troubleshooting](/deploying_services/use_a_custom_domain/#troubleshooting-custom-domains) section.

You must [remove a custom domain from your cdn-route service](#removing-a-custom-domain-from-your-cdn-route-service) to stop using any of your custom domains with the GOV.UK PaaS.

> A single cdn-route service instance can have up to 100 domains associated with it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can associate up to 100 subdomains with a single cdn-route service instance.
```

    ```

1. Create the TXT record for the new subdomain using the DNS information shown. This record:
    - validates your subdomain
    - issues the TLS certificate used to encrypt traffic

    Using this example, you create a `TXT` record for your new domain of `_acme-challenge.www.example.org.` with a value of `534fgHjJIfnfDnIHKAENph6GVU8aeoSV7FzDEDL-s4H`.

1. Create a CNAME record for the new subdomain using the DNS information shown. This directs traffic to your service.

    Using this example, you create a `CNAME` record in your DNS server pointing `www.example.org` to `d3nrs0916m1mk2.cloudfront.net.`

You have now completed the custom domain setup process, and can now [map a subdomain to your app](#mapping-a-subdomain-route-to-your-app).

It should take one hour for domain setup to finish after you have created the required DNS records. If it has not finished after 2 hours, please refer to the [troubleshooting](/deploying_services/use_a_custom_domain/#troubleshooting-custom-domains) section.

You must [remove a custom domain from your cdn-route service](#removing-a-custom-domain-from-your-cdn-route-service) to stop using any of your custom domains with the GOV.UK PaaS.

> A single cdn-route service instance can have up to 100 domains associated with it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can associate up to 100 subdomains with a single cdn-route service instance.
```

### Mapping a subdomain route to your app

For each subdomain on which you want your app to be accessible, map the route to the app:

```

> cf map-route APPNAME --hostname www DOMAIN_NAME

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cf map-route APP_NAME --hostname www DOMAIN_NAME
```

    ```
    cf routes --orglevel | grep -we DOMAIN_NAME -e^space
    ```
    In this example, your org manager must tell the owners of `app-1` and `app-2` that you are removing the domain:

    ```
    space   host     domain        port   path   type   apps     service
    tools   www      DOMAIN_NAME                        app-1
    tools   info     DOMAIN_NAME                        app-2
    ```

1. Remove the custom domain from Cloud Foundry's routing database and from every app using that domain:

    ```
    cf delete-domain DOMAIN_NAME
    ```

1. Check how many custom domains your cdn-route service has:

    ```
    cf service SERVICE_INSTANCE | grep ^message:
    ```

    where `SERVICE_INSTANCE` is the name of one of your existing cdn-route service instances.

    In this example, there are 2 configured domains contained inside the square brackets: `www.example.com` and `www.example.net`.

    ```
    message: Service instance provisioned [www.example.com,www.example.net =>
             london.cloudapps.digital]; CDN domain d3nrs0916m1mk2.cloudfront.net
    ```

>     If you cannot see this output, please contact GOV.UK PaaS support at [gov-uk-paas-support@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk.](mailto:gov-uk-paas-support@digital.cabinet-office.gov.uk.) before proceeding.

Reviewer: You have a spurious trailing `.` in the `mailto` link. This is also why Travis is failing.

Author: changed

1. If your cdn-route service only has one associated custom domain, you must delete the service and the associated custom domain:

    ```
    cf delete-service SERVICE_INSTANCE
    ```

    where `SERVICE_INSTANCE` is the name of the appropriate cdn-route service instance.

>     You have now deleted your custom domain from the GOV.UK PAaS, and can [change or remove your domain DNS records](#amend-your-custom-domain-39-s-dns-records).

Reviewer: The anchor link here has "amend" in it, but the title below is "changing".

Author: changed

> Note that forwarding headers has a negative impact on cacheability. See the [More about how the CDN works](/deploying_services/use_a_custom_domain/#more-about-how-custom-domains-work) section for details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that forwarding headers has a negative impact on cacheability. See the [More about how the CDN works](/deploying_services/use_a_custom_domain/#more-about-how-custom-domains-work) section for details.
```

> You can configure CloudFront to forward headers to your app, which causes CloudFront to cache multiple versions of an object based on the values in one or more request headers. See [CloudFront's documentation](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/header-caching.html#header-caching-web) [external link] for more detail. This means the more headers you forward the less caching will take place. Forwarding all headers means no caching will happen.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure CloudFront to forward headers to your app, which causes CloudFront to cache multiple versions of an object based on the values in one or more request headers. See [CloudFront's documentation](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/header-caching.html#header-caching-web) [external link] for more detail. This means the more headers you forward the less caching will take place. Forwarding all headers means no caching will happen.
```

#### Authentication

> Cookie headers are forwarded to your app by default, so cookie-based authentication will work as expected. Other headers, such as HTTP auth, are stripped by default. If you need a different configuration, see the guidance on [Forwarding Headers](/deploying_services/use_a_custom_domain/#forwarding-headers).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cookie headers are forwarded to your app by default, so cookie-based authentication will work as expected. Other headers, such as HTTP auth, are stripped by default. If you need a different configuration, see the guidance on [Forwarding Headers](/deploying_services/use_a_custom_domain/#forwarding-headers).
```
